You need to sign in or create an account to save
Challenge Directors for Robotics in Extreme Environments and Quantum Technology
Industry-led, powered by multi-disciplinary research and collaboration between academics and business, the Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund (ISCF) will develop UK industries that are fit for the future, driving progress in technologies where the UK can become a world-leader in their research and commercialisation.
The ISCF was announced in November 2016 by the Prime Minister as part of the Government’s wider Industrial Strategy. It is delivered by UK Research and Innovation, a new organisation with a combined budget of more than £6 billion that brings together the seven Research Councils, Innovate UK and a new organisation, Research England, to ensure that the UK research and innovation system is fit for the future.
The Fund is challenge-focused and Challenge Directors, experts in their field, will oversee the individual challenges and ensure that they deliver maximum impact for the UK.
To deliver on this ambition we are looking for outstanding leaders providing industry expertise, oversight, and strategic direction. Each Challenge Director will shape and deliver an exciting, high-profile agenda through a UK-wide industrial programme of research and innovation.
Each challenge rests within one of the four Grand Challenges identified in the Industrial Strategy, one of which is Future of Mobility. We are looking for an expert individual to provide leadership across their respective challenge;
Robotics in Extreme Environments - To develop innovative RAI technologies to make a direct and positive impact on economic growth, the environment and quality of life, via improved processes and products
- To develop innovative RAI technologies to make a direct and positive impact on economic growth, the environment and quality of life, via improved processes and products Pioneer funding for quantum technologies - To understand how this emerging technology can be turned into products that will underpin industry in the future
Bringing sector credibility, industrial and professional standing, each of the Challenge Directors will ensure the research and business focused elements of the programme deliver real impact for the benefit of the UK economy. The successful candidates will need to influence and build relationships across industry and academia. Challenge Directors will need to ensure delivery, control and accountability throughout their project portfolio.
These are outstanding opportunities to shape and build programmes that will have a tangible impact on the UK economy and the future of our society. If you think you have the skills, experience, passion and drive to help us deliver the Industrial Strategy we want to hear from you.
For further information about these opportunities and to apply, please visit www.ukri-iscf-appointments.com
The Voice of America, which first went on the air in 1942, is a multimedia international broadcasting service funded by the U.S. government.
VOA broadcasts more than 1,000 hours of news, information, educational, and cultural programming every week to an estimated worldwide audience of more than 115 million people.
Car buying can be nerve-wracking. You’re typically making one of the three biggest purchasing decisions that you’ll make in your life (the other two: college choice and home buying). Your car is one of the most visible manifestations of your personality. It also needs to get you and your family to work, school, and everywhere in between.
Car buying is the most intimidating if you’re not prepared. The first thing that you as a buyer need to do is try to get as much emotion out of the buying process as possible. It’s not easy, but remember: It’s a business transaction, nothing more and nothing less.
Unfortunately, car buying is also one of the last bastions of freewheeling price negotiation. Nearly every facet of the transaction can be adjusted as you strive to get the best new car deal and the dealer tries to get the most for their product. Don’t hate the salesperson, manager, or finance manager for this; they’re simply doing their job.
The two biggest factors in the process are knowledge and confusion. Your best friend is knowledge and the dealer’s best friend is confusion. When you start to weigh in factors like rebates, financing incentives, your car’s trade-in value, and various fees, the process can get rather complex and confusing – especially if you’re relying on the salesperson to guide you through the process.
Fortunately, you're already on the right path; the fact that you’ve landed on this page means that you’re arming yourself with knowledge.
Follow these tips to cut through the noise and negotiate the best price on a car.
It’s never been easier to get quotes from multiple dealerships, and you don’t even have to drive across town. The best way to get online quotes is to use our Best Price Program to get a prenegotiated price with guaranteed savings. You can also go online and use the quote tools on dealer and manufacturer websites.
The best part about these quote programs is that they give you exactly what you’re interested in: the price of the car you want without confusing factors like the value of your trade-in or what you’ll do for financing.
If you do decide to reach out to dealers on your own, don’t mention your trade-in, monthly payments, or financing options. At this stage, you’re only interested in the vehicle’s sales price. Be sure that any quote includes all of the taxes and fees involved in the transaction.
You’re several steps ahead when it comes time to negotiate if you already have a price from a dealership in hand, a pre-approved financing offer, and knowledge about the value of your trade-in. Be sure to check our new car pricing tool to ensure that the quotes are in the ballpark of what you should expect to pay. If they’re too high, keep looking, even expanding your search to dealerships a couple hours from your home. If they’re suspiciously low, that should raise a red flag.
With that info in hand, you’ll have a target price for your negotiations. If the dealer says they'll give you $1,000 off, you’ll know if that’s a good deal or if they should go lower.
It’s critical at this juncture to be totally honest with yourself about what you are able to pay. Remember that your monthly payment is only one component of car ownership. There are fuel, insurance, parking, and maintenance costs to consider.
As we noted earlier, buying a new car can be an emotional process. It’s even more emotional after you’ve just test driven your dream car. However, you need to try to keep those feelings at bay. Use good judgment and avoid anything that would heighten your emotional attachment to the car, such as taking it home for the night. They might offer, but don’t bite.
You want to get the best deal you can, and dealers try to maximize profits on every car they sell. It’s naturally an adversarial process, with a bit of tension involved. It’s in your best interest to remain friendly and courteous. A hostile negotiation is uncomfortable for everyone involved, and the staff will be more likely to work with you if you seem calm and friendly.
Remember, this is a business deal, and the salespeople have extensive training on how to manage the transaction in their favor. You’re much more likely to get a positive outcome if they like you, instead of wanting to stick it to you because you’re acting like a jerk.
If you don’t like the deal that’s on the table, or if high-pressure sales tactics are making you feel uncomfortable, you can always walk away. There are other cars, other dealers, and other deals out there.
If the process totally gives you the sweats, there are alternatives to going through a dealer. Auto brokers can be recommended by your lender or auto club, and (for a fee) they will negotiate on your behalf, even delivering the car to your driveway.
Going to the dealership during a weekday means you’ll compete with fewer customers, which may make it easier to get a good deal. You’ll also have shorter waits to take test drives, confer with managers, and get into the finance office if you decide to buy. Weekends and nights are the busiest times at the dealership.
The less you talk the better. While they will try to mine for information, you should keep it simple and businesslike. Don’t talk about anything except the final purchase price of the car at this point. If you’re taking a test drive, many dealers will ask for your social security number before you get in the car. You should politely decline if possible. They want to use it to run a credit check on you while you're test driving, so they can put a financing package together that is profitable for them. Fortunately, with your financing research, you’re already one step ahead of them.
Dealers will want to talk about your monthly payments, trade-in value and financing options – everything other than the true price of the car. Each of those things can obscure the price of the car and make it look like you’re getting a better deal than you are.
You may (and probably should) have a maximum monthly payment that you can afford in mind, but it’s not in your best interest to shop by monthly payment. When you shop by monthly payment, rather than the total cost of the vehicle, you’re more susceptible to financing mechanisms that can have you paying thousands more over the life of the loan.
For example, to lower the payment, a dealer might stretch a car’s loan term an extra year instead of dropping the price. That means that you not only pay more for the car, but you also pay interest for an extra year -- a double win for the dealer and their finance company, but a huge loss for your pocketbook. Know roughly what your monthly payments will be on your target price, and negotiate on price alone.
There are financial calculator apps for smartphones. Install one, or use the one on our website, so that you can check the dealership’s math.
Bringing up your trade-in too early can complicate the process, and add to the confusion that the dealer relishes. It allows a salesperson to draw your attention away from the sales price by moving numbers around. For example, a slightly higher sales price may not look so bad if you think he or she is offering you a good deal on your trade-in.
You should already know what your car is worth, and staying with that number through the negotiation process will deliver a truer price on your new car.
Part of your research process should include a search for deals on the model or brand of car you’re looking for. But bringing that knowledge up too early in the process can lead to paying more than you should.
Do your best to lock in a price, before the incentives are applied or deducted. If the car you’re considering has a cash back offer available, have them subtract the difference after you’ve negotiated a price, not before. Negotiating an awesome price, then getting cash off or zero percent financing, is a special kind of wonderful.
There are a few things that you can’t negotiate. You’re going to have to pay title and licensing fees, sales tax, and a destination fee, which is set by the manufacturer. There’s a growing tendency, however, for the dealer to include a number of other fees, such as documentation, marketing, or dealer fees, which are open to negotiation, though the dealer won’t want to. They’re the dealer’s fixed overhead costs, and their inclusion in your deal shouldn’t be considered a certainty.
When you’re in the finance office signing the final paperwork, the finance manager is likely to offer you any number of add-ons, from an extended warranty to paint protection or key insurance. Many of these items can be purchased from outside companies, including your lender, insurance agent, or independent shops. If you’re interested, be sure to do your research up front, so you have an idea of what you should be paying.
To wrap it up, knowledge is your friend, confusion isn’t, and you always have the option to walk away if you’re uncomfortable. The car buying process can be daunting, but sticking to this plan should help simplify it, helping you get the best price possible on your next new car.
With Toys “R” Us’ liquidation plans underway, one of the toy chain’s property arms has filed for bankruptcy, impacting $859 million of debt.
On March 15, after failing to reorganize around its successful stores, the toy superstore said it had to liquidate. That meant the closure of around 700 U.S. stores, as Commercial Observer previously reported. Yesterday, Toys “R” Us Property Company I, a subsidiary of the 69-year-old toy company, filed for Chapter 11 in the Eastern District of Virginia.
“Toys already had roughly $5 billion of debt,” said Adam D. Stein-Sapir of Pioneer Funding Group, which specializes in analyzing and investing in bankruptcy cases, and who is not involved in the case. “Regarding the debt against the owned properties—$859 million—those creditors will be participants in the whole Toys bankruptcy case, with the caveat that their collateral is the owned real estate.”
The rest of the company’s creditors were part of the initial bankruptcy filing and their collateral is Toys’ other assets.
The $859 million figure was noted as the outstanding principal amount as of Sept. 17, 2017 in the bankruptcy petition filed two days later. The loans were set to mature on Aug. 21, 2019.
The largest claim in yesterday’s filing, obtained via Nationwide Research Company, is $129.7 million owed to Guggenheim Partners followed by $107.9 million owed to J.P. Morgan Chase and $107.8 million to H/2 Capital Partners. A spokeswoman for J.P. Morgan declined to comment and representatives for the other two companies didn’t respond to a request for comment.
The local attorney representing Toys in the bankruptcy didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment, and nor did Toys’ counsel or a Toys spokesperson.The Blue Cash Preferred Card from American Express is a cash back rewards card that offers rewards on a variety of everyday purchases. The card earns 6 percent cash back on up to $6,000 spent annually at U.S. supermarkets (then 1 percent), 3 percent cash back at U.S. gas stations and select U.S. department stores, and 1 percent cash back on all other purchases. The card offers a zero percent introductory APR for the first 12 months on purchases and balance transfers. After that, there is a 14.49 to 25.49 percent variable APR.
New cardholders can earn a bonus $200 cash back after making $1,000 in purchases during the first three months of opening the account. The Blue Cash Preferred Card from American Express has an annual fee of $95.
Cash back rewards: With the Blue Cash Preferred Card from American Express, up to $6,000 in spending each year at U.S. supermarkets is eligible for 6 percent cash back rewards (then 1 percent). Purchases at U.S. gas stations and select U.S. department stores earn 3 percent cash back, and all other purchases earn an unlimited 1 percent cash back.
Welcome offer: Blue Cash Preferred Card from American Express cardholders can earn a $200 cash back bonus after making $1,000 in purchases within the first three months after opening the account.
Added protection from American Express: Cardholders are offered no-cost fraud protection directly from American Express, meaning any unauthorized charges are not the responsibility of the cardholder.
Bonus categories: The Blue Cash Preferred Card from American Express does not offer a flat rate for cash back; instead, it utilizes bonus categories that earn at different rates. Individuals who do not spend up to $6,000 per year at U.S. supermarkets and those who do not frequently make purchases at U.S. gas stations or select U.S. department stores may not realize the full cash back potential of this card.
Limits on rewards potential: The 6 percent cash back at U.S. supermarkets is only available on the first $6,000 of spending annually. After that limit, you’ll earn 1 percent cash back on purchases.
Rates & Fees Blue Cash Preferred® Card from American Express Features & Rewards Details Features Issuer Name American Express
Balance Transfer Intro APR 0% on Balance Transfers for 12 months
Balance Transfer Fee Either $5 or 3% of the amount of each transfer, whichever is greater.
Cash Advance Fee Either $5 or 3% of the amount of each cash advance, whichever is greater.
Foreign Transaction Fee 2.7% of each transaction after conversion to US dollars.
Additional Benefits $200 statement credit after you spend $1,000 in purchases on your new Card within the first 3 months. 6% cash back at U.S. supermarkets (on up to $6,000 per year in purchases, then 1%) - that means spending $60 a week at U.S. supermarkets could earn over $180 back per year. 3% cash back at U.S. gas stations and at select U.S. department stores, 1% back on other purchases. Low intro APR: 0% for 12 months on purchases and balance transfers, then a variable rate, currently 14.49% to 25.49%. Expanding merchant acceptance: Over 1 million more places in the U.S. started accepting American Express® Cards in the last year. $95 annual fee. Cash back is received in the form of Reward Dollars that can be easily redeemed for statement credits, gift cards, and merchandise. Terms Apply.
Blue Cash Preferred Card from American Express cardholders receive several free benefits. These benefits include:
Access to the global assist hotline that offers 24/7 help if an emergency situation arises while the cardmember is more than 100 miles away from home
Car rental loss and damage insurance, as well as roadside assistance and travel accident insurance
Fraud liability coverage, which protects cardholders from paying for unauthorized charges on the card
The ability to easily and quickly track cash back rewards online or via mobile device
The welcome offer available to new cardholders is the best and quickest way to maximize cash back rewards with the Blue Cash Preferred Card from American Express. As long as you make $1,000 in purchases with the card during your first three months, you’ll receive $200 in cash back rewards.
In addition to the welcome offer, cardholders have the option to earn 6 percent cash back at U.S. supermarkets for the first $6,000 in spending each year, then 1 percent after that. You can use the Blue Cash Preferred Card from American Express at U.S. gas stations and select U.S. department stores to earn 3 percent on purchases without any earning limits. All other purchases earn a flat 1 percent cash back.
Blue Cash Preferred Card from American Express vs. Discover it chrome
Annual fee: The Blue Cash Preferred Card from American Express has an annual fee of $95. Discover it chrome card holders do not pay an annual fee.
Rewards: With the Blue Cash Preferred Card from American Express, cash back rewards are earned at a rate of 6 percent at U.S. supermarkets for up to $6,000 per year (then 1 percent), 3 percent at U.S. gas stations and select U.S. department store, and 1 percent for all other purchases. Discover it chrome card holders earn cash back rewards of 2 percent for gas station and dining purchases on up to $1,000 in combined purchases per quarter. All other purchases with the Discover it chrome card automatically earn 1 percent unlimited cash back.
Welcome offer: Blue Cash Preferred Card from American Express users can earn $200 in bonus cash back after making $1,000 in purchases within the first three months of opening the account. The Discover it chrome card automatically matches all of the cash back you earn at the end of the first year for new cardholders.
Benefits: The Blue Cash Preferred Card from American Express offers travel benefits including car rental loss and damage insurance, travel accident insurance, roadside assistance and a global assist hotline. Shopping and entertainment benefits include extended warranty coverage, return protection and more. The Discover it chrome’s benefits include free access to a monthly FICO credit score and fraud protection.
Blue Cash Preferred Card from American Express vs. Chase Freedom Credit Card
Annual fee: The Blue Cash Preferred Card from American Express carries an annual fee of $95, while the Chase Freedom Credit Card has no annual fee.
Rewards: With the Blue Cash Preferred Card from American Express, cash back rewards are available at a rate of 6 percent at U.S. supermarkets for up to $6,000 per year (then 1 percent) and 3 percent at U.S. gas stations and select U.S. department stores with no limit. All other purchases earn 1 percent cash back. The Chase Freedom Credit Card offers 5 percent cash back on purchases up to $1,500 in activated bonus categories that rotate each quarter. All other purchases earn a flat rate of 1 percent cash back without a limit.
Welcome offer: New cardholders with the Blue Cash Preferred Card from American Express can earn $200 in bonus cash back by spending $1,000 on the card in the first three months. Chase Freedom Credit Card holders can earn $150 in bonus cash back as long as they spend $500 on purchases within the first three months.The Starwood Preferred Guest Credit Card from American Express is a cobranded hotel rewards credit card that earns rewards with Starwood hotels. With this card, you can earn up to five points per dollar of eligible purchases at participating Starwood hotels (two points as a cardholder on top of the two or three you can earn as an SPG member). You’ll earn two points per dollar of eligible purchases at participating Marriott Rewards hotels. All other eligible purchases earn one point per dollar. If you spend $3,000 within the first three months of opening the account, you will earn 25,000 bonus points. Benefits include free in-room premium internet with participating hotels, roadside assistance, car rental loss and damage insurance, travel accident insurance and extended warranty coverage.
Bonus points on Starwood purchases: As a cardholder, you’ll earn up to five points per dollar of eligible purchases at participating Starwood hotels (two points as a cardholder on top of the two or three you can earn as an SPG member). You’ll earn two points per dollar of eligible purchases at participating Marriott Rewards hotels. All other eligible purchases earn one point per dollar.
Welcome offer: When you spend $3,000 within the first three months of opening the account, you’ll earn 25,000 bonus Starpoints.
Points transfer: Points can be transferred to 30 airline frequent flyer programs, most on a one-to-one basis. You’ll receive a 5,000-point bonus when you transfer 20,000 points to a participating frequent flyer program.
No introductory APR: The Starwood Preferred Guest Credit Card from American Express does not offer an introductory APR for purchases or balance transfers. The standard APR is 16.74 to 20.74 percent variable.
Limited hotel perks: Unlike many other cobranded travel cards, the Starwood Preferred Guest Credit Card from American Express does not offer much for brand-specific benefits such as free room upgrades, early check-in or late checkout. The card does offer free in-room premium internet, however.
Annual fee: Cardholders will pay a $0 introductory annual fee for the first year, then $95.
Rates & Fees Starwood Preferred Guest® Credit Card from American Express Features & Rewards Details Features Issuer Name American Express
Annual Fee $0 introductory annual fee for the first year, then $95.
Additional Benefits Earn 25,000 Starpoints® after you use your new Card to make $3,000 in purchases within the first 3 months. Earn 2 Starpoints® for each dollar of eligible purchases spent at participating SPG® & Marriott Rewards® hotels. Earn 1 Starpoint for all other purchases. No Foreign Transaction Fees on International purchases. Redeem Starpoints® at over 1,300 participating hotels and resorts in over 100 countries and for flights on more than 150 airlines with SPG flights, all with no blackout dates. $0 introductory annual fee for the first year, then $95. Planning a road trip? Rent your car, fill up your tank, book your hotel, and pay for it with your American Express® Card. Terms Apply.
The Starwood Preferred Guest Credit Card from American Express has travel, shopping and entertainment benefits. These benefits include:
The Starwood Preferred Guest Credit Card from American Express earns up to five points per dollar of eligible purchases at participating Starwood hotels (two points as a cardholder on top of the two or three you can earn as an SPG member). You’ll earn two points per dollar of eligible purchases at participating Marriott Rewards hotels. All other eligible purchases earn one point per dollar. You can earn 25,000 points if you spend $3,000 within the first three months of opening the account to qualify for the welcome offer.
Starwood Preferred Guest Credit Card from American Express vs. Chase Sapphire Preferred Credit Card
Annual fee: Both cards have $95 annual fees that are waived for the first year.
Rewards: The Starwood Preferred Guest Credit Card from American Express earns up to five points per dollar of eligible purchases at participating Starwood hotels (two points as a cardholder on top of the two or three you can earn as an SPG member). You’ll earn two points per dollar of eligible purchases at participating Marriott Rewards hotels. All other eligible purchases earn one point per dollar. With the Chase Sapphire Preferred Credit Card, you will earn two points per dollar on travel and dining at restaurants and one point per dollar on all other purchases.
Welcome offer: You can earn 25,000 bonus points with the Starwood Preferred Guest Credit Card from American Express if you spend $3,000 within the first three months of opening the account. When you spend $4,000 within the first three months of opening a Chase Sapphire Preferred Credit Card account, you will earn 50,000 bonus points (worth $625 in travel rewards when you redeem through Chase Ultimate Rewards).
Benefits: Starwood Preferred Guest Credit Card from American Express cardholder benefits include free in-room premium internet, roadside assistance, car rental loss and damage insurance, travel accident insurance, extended warranty coverage and purchase protection. The Chase Sapphire Preferred Credit Card offers benefits including trip cancellation insurance, travel and emergency assistance services, purchase protection and extended warranty coverage.
Starwood Preferred Guest Credit Card from American Express vs. Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card
Annual fee: Both cards have a $95 annual fee that’s waived for the first year.
Rewards: With the Starwood Preferred Guest Credit Card from American Express, you can earn up to five points per dollar of eligible purchases at participating Starwood hotels (two points as a cardholder on top of the two or three you can earn as an SPG member). You’ll earn two points per dollar of eligible purchases at participating Marriott Rewards hotels. All other eligible purchases earn one point per dollar. The Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card earns an unlimited 10 miles per dollar on hotels when you use your card at hotels.com/Venture and 2 miles per dollar on all other purchases.
Welcome offer: The Starwood Preferred Guest Credit Card from American Express offers a 25,000-point bonus if you spend $3,000 within the first three months of opening the account. If you spend $3,000 within the first three months of opening a Capital One Venture Rewards Credit Card account, you will earn 50,000 bonus points.As you may have noticed, many credit card providers no longer require a signature after you make a transaction, a former safeguard against identity theft. In fact, four major credit card companies – Mastercard, Discover, American Express and Visa – have eliminated or plan to get rid of handwritten authentication for purchases. Mastercard officially ended a signature verification requirement for purchases on April 13. Meanwhile, Discover, American Express and Visa have announced that they'll no longer require a credit card signature by the end of April.
Why does it matter that issuers will stop collecting signatures? Here's a primer on how new technological advancements to detect and deter fraud have made handwritten authentication an antiquated way to verify identity – and what you need to know about major card issuers' decision to scrap signatures.
Issuers have long wanted to end the signature requirement. There used to be a good reason for signing for purchases, says Trevor Buxton, a certified fraud examiner and fraud communications manager at PNC Bank in Downers Grove, Illinois.
"Signatures served as proof that you made a purchase and agreed to pay the amount charged," he says. In other words, a store clerk could look at your signature on the back of your credit card and on a driver's license and be fairly confident that you were who your credit card said you were.
But with the rise of online shopping – where no handwritten signatures have ever been required to make a purchase – paired with technological advancements like microchips, "you may have noticed that nobody actually checks your signature any more," Buxton says. Even if a signature is examined by a store clerk, "there are flaws," Buxton says. For instance, "people may scribble down only a few letters that resemble their name rather than a full signature."
Still, if you think it's unsafe to stop signing after every credit card transaction, think again. Thanks to the development of EMV (Europay, Mastercard and Visa) technology, which has been popular in Europe for well over a decade – and introduced in the U.S. just a few years ago – issuers are no longer relying on handwritten signatures to validate identity.
"The chip enhances card security because it generates a unique transaction code, which is shared with the merchant as opposed to swiping the card in the payment reader to use the information stored on the magnetic stripe," Buxton says.
While the chip-embedded cards do require a longer transaction time after placing them in the reader, there's little doubt that these technologically advanced cards deter credit card theft. According to Visa, stores accepting cards with embedded chips reported 58 percent fewer losses in December 2016, compared to December 2015. What's more, Mastercard reported a 54 percent drop in counterfeit credit card fraud among merchants enabling EMV technology from April 2015 to April 2016.
Phasing out signatures won't mean that you'll never have to sign a receipt. Generally, cardholders won't be required to sign many credit and debit card receipts in the future, but you can expect to sign after certain transactions.
"A merchant can still require a cardholder to sign for a purchase," says Cyndie Martini, president and CEO of Member Access Pacific, a credit union card management company based out of Tukwila, Washington. In other words, it's an option for retailers to impose a signature requirement, Martini says.
With that said, some major retail chains have announced that they're doing away with signatures. Target has announced plans to eliminate them in April, and Walmart had stopped requiring signatures for most purchases and will soon put an end to all signatures previously required for receipts.
Eliminating the signature requirement won't increase your chances of becoming a victim of identity theft. The rise of EMV chips, the chip readers and mobile wallets have led "to making signatures obsolete," and "are generally considered more secure than signing for a purchase," Buxton says.
"It's debatable if the handwritten signature has ever had any security value whatsoever," says Robert Siciliano, a Boston-based identity theft consultant. It was in the 1600s that a law was first passed in England requiring a handwritten signature when signing for a purchase made on credit, Siciliano says. Even then, a handwritten signature was meant to prove someone had agreed to pay money back to a creditor, but it couldn't stop someone from moving to another town with the purchase and never being seen again.
Fast-forward to today and signing for purchases hasn't prevented crooks from stealing credit card information, nor has the EMV chip, despite cutting down the making of counterfeit credit cards. Last year, there were 16.7 million victims of identity fraud, the highest number of victims ever reported, according to an annual identity fraud report by Javelin Strategy & Research, an advisory firm headquartered in Pleasanton, California.Credit cards offer convenience and rewards, but they can also come with sneaky fees. (iStockphoto)
A 3-inch-by-2-inch piece of plastic holds the power to simplify your financial life – or ruin it.
Whether a credit card turns out to be friend or foe depends on how you use it, says Beverly Harzog, a credit expert and author of “The Debt Escape Plan.” “Credit cards are not evil,” she says. “They really are a great tool because they can help you build great credit.”
On the other hand, the temptation to overspend increases when you have a credit card rather than a debit card. Currently, Americans carry more than $1 trillion in revolving debt such as credit cards, according to the Federal Reserve.
“Not everyone should be using credit cards, and it’s important to be honest with yourself,” Harzog says. “That’s not a weakness. That’s just facing facts.”
Here are some of the ways in which credit cards can help stabilize your finances – and the hidden dangers that sometimes make such cards toxic to your financial health.
Credit cards offer many benefits that can make them the most attractive way to pay for goods and services.
Credit cards help you build a credit history. Using a credit card instead of a debit card and making payments on time helps you establish a solid credit history and a strong credit score.
“When you have a great score, you’re going to save money down the line,” Harzog says. She notes that top credit scores help you get the best mortgage and loan interest rates and the best price for auto insurance.
To build up a great score, use your card sensibly. The amount of debt you carry makes up 30 percent of your FICO score, the credit score most lenders look to first. Paying your bill on time accounts for another 35 percent of your FICO score. It is important to keep these factors in mind when using credit cards.
“It’s imperative that they are used responsibly, or else it’s going to backfire,” Harzog says.
If you struggle to make payments – or if you simply run up large balances on your credit card each month – it might make sense to pay with cash or checks a bit more often.
Credit cards offer convenience and quick access to cash. A credit card gives you instant access to major purchasing power. “It’s a good thing to have for emergencies,” Harzog says.
Harzog says she keeps a credit card with a low interest rate handy for such situations. That strategy paid off when she suddenly needed a new roof but did not have the cash to pay for it upfront.
“Maybe you can pay that off in two months, but you can’t with the cash flow of one month,” she says. In such situations, a credit card makes sense. However, if you know you will not be able to pay off the bill for months or years – or, if all your credit cards have high interest rates – you might consider another option to pay the bill, such as a personal loan, Harzog says.
Credit cards offer key protections. A credit card gives you far greater safety than cash or a debit card when you shop, says credit expert John Ulzheimer, who has worked for both FICO and the credit reporting agency Equifax in the past. “It’s infinitely safer,” he says. “It’s almost not even on the same chart as using cash or a debit card.”
If somebody steals your credit card and starts ringing up purchases, federal law limits your liability to $50, and many cards offer zero liability protection. By contrast, lost or stolen cash is never found again. “If you lose cash, it’s gone,” Ulzheimer says. “There’s nowhere you can go to get it back.”
In addition, debit card protections are not as robust as those of credit cards. Fail to report unauthorized charges on your debit card within two business days after you learn of the fraud, and you could be on the hook for $500 of your losses. After 60 calendar days, you could be responsible for the entire loss.
Also, someone who gains access to your debit card can begin pulling money straight out of your checking account. “If someone abuses your debit card, then that’s your money that’s being abused, not the bank’s money,” Ulzheimer says. Until that money is restored to your account, you might have trouble paying bills and meeting other financial obligations.
Credit cards offer rewards. Points, cash back and other rewards are among the best reasons to use a credit card for purchases. Ulzheimer says he uses credit cards as often as possible so he can rack up rewards.
“They essentially equal a discount of the purchase price of the item that I am buying because I am getting something back from my card issuer,” Ulzheimer says.
Harzog also is a fan of rewards programs. “I think that’s one of the best benefits, but you have to use your card responsibly,” she says. That means paying off the balance in full every month. Otherwise, interest charges over time can easily swamp any rewards benefits you might earn.
As with most financial tools, credit cards have a shadow side. Fail to use a credit card well, and you will pay the price. “If not used responsibly, it’s a very dangerous thing, and it can ruin your financial life for quite a while,” Harzog says.
Credit cards make it easy to pile up debt. Overspending with a credit card can send you tumbling into a deep pit of debt.
“Credit cards can be very dangerous if you’re not using them responsibly,” Harzog says. “Your finances can get out of control in a hurry.”
Many people charge just a little too much on their credit card one month, then pledge that they’ll pay it off the next month, Harzog says. Despite their good intentions, the balance keeps growing.
As the interest compounds month after month and the debt grows, financial clouds gather. Miss a minimum payment or two, and it will zap your credit score.
“You’re going to ruin your credit,” Harzog says. “You’re going to have to rebuild your credit score, and that takes time. It doesn’t happen overnight.”
Credit cards carry high interest rates. Pay for goods or services with cash or a check, and your savings will be a little less robust. But make that same payment with a credit card, and it can wound your finances for months – or even years – if you do not quickly pay off the charge.
In early March, the average credit card interest rate stood at 16.41 percent, according to CreditCards.com. So, if you only make the minimum payment on your credit card each month, your debt will compound quickly.
Ulzheimer says combining as little as $15,000 of debt with a high interest rate can cause your obligations to spiral out of control.
“If you get into too much credit card debt and you are only able to make those minimum payments every month, you’ll probably pay your house off before you will end up paying your credit card off,” Ulzheimer says.
Credit card purchases sometimes come with sneaky fees. Have you ever tried to pay a bill with your credit card only to learn you will have to pay a few dollars extra for the convenience of doing so?
These sneaky little costs are the result of the interchange fee that a merchant’s bank must pay every time a customer uses a credit card to pay for a good or service from that merchant. Businesses sometimes charge a “convenience fee” to the customer to recoup the cost of this interchange fee.
On a big purchase, the convenience fee can add up. For example, Ulzheimer says his son attends a private school, which allows parents to pay tuition on a credit card. "They want you to cover 4 percent of the tuition so they can cover their interchange fee," he says. "So, from that perspective, it’s easier for me to pay using an old-fashioned check or a wire transfer from my bank."
Credit cards make you feel richer than you are. If you only have $300 in cash – or a similar amount in a checking account – you have an enforced limit that prevents you from spending too much.
“If you’ve got a $25,000 limit on a credit card, obviously you have considerably more buying power,” Ulzheimer says. “Some people will tend to overspend simply because they have the ability to do so.”
For her part, Harzog says people should not use credit cards to inflate their lifestyle. If you cannot pay off the amount in full, take it as a sign that you need to rein in spending, Harzog says.Improve your credit card habits. (Getty Images) Many consumers either love or hate credit cards. They can be extremely helpful if used responsibly, but they can also hurt you if you don’t use them right. Wondering how you can use your credit card better? Check out this list of mistakes to avoid and what to do instead. Not reading the fine print.
Not reading the fine print. (Getty Images) Let’s start from the beginning. A lot of issues stem from not reading or understanding your credit card agreement. For example, if you try transferring your balance to another card without understanding the rules, you could end up owing more.
Instead: Resist the urge to automatically scroll to the bottom of the page and agree to your card’s terms. Make sure you know what you’re getting yourself into, from your card’s rewards program to fees. Not using it.
Not using it. (iStockPhoto) Credit card companies don’t make as much money if consumers don’t use their cards. If you haven’t used your credit card in awhile, your credit card issuer could deem your card inactive and close your account, which could negatively impact your credit.
Instead: If you are reluctant to use credit but want to keep your card open, try placing a small recurring fee on it and paying it off immediately each time. Alternatively, swipe it every few months for an item you need to buy, like groceries. Not paying on time.
Not paying on time. (Getty/David Gould) Not paying your bills on time doesn’t just severely lower your credit score – it could also cost you monetarily, as your credit card provider may penalize you by charging a late fee and raising your interest rates.
Instead: If you keep forgetting to make payments, set up as many reminders as necessary to ensure your bills get paid. If you can’t pay on time because you don’t have enough money, try scrutinizing your budget to see where you can cut back and asking for a grace period or reduced minimum payment. Your credit card company may understand if you demonstrate that you’re working to remedy the situation. Only making the minimum payment.
Only making the minimum payment. (Getty Images) Simply put, paying the minimum each month could cost you a lot of money and take forever to pay off. Say you have a credit card with a $1,000 balance and a 14.95 percent interest rate. According to Credit Karma’s debt repayment calculator, if you only paid $25 a month, it could cost you an estimated $393 in interest and take you an astonishing 56 months to pay off.
Instead: Rethink what you pay monthly. If you need convincing to pay more, just take a look at your credit card statement – it should tell you how much it will cost you if you only pay the minimum. Using all the credit you’re granted.
Using all the credit you’re granted. (iStockphoto) Excessively swiping your card isn’t just bad news for your wallet – it could also hurt your credit score. Many scoring models factor in how much of your credit limit you’re using because the more credit you use, the more likely you may not be able to pay everything off.
Instead: Monitor your utilization rate and make sure it never gets too high. A good rule of thumb is to aim for a rate under 30 percent. However, note that this doesn’t mean you have to keep a balance on your cards! Taking cash advances.
Taking cash advances. (Getty Images) Strapped for cash? Avoid using your credit card for cash advances unless it’s an emergency – with sky-high interest rates, upfront fees and no grace period, it could be a costly mistake. While it could be a better option than taking out a dangerous loan, like a payday, pawnshop or car title loan, it’s still best to avoid if possible.
Instead: Consider other options, like applying for a short-term loan product, asking for a payday advance or borrowing from a loved one. Closing it (for no good reason).
Closing it (for no good reason). (Getty Images) As mentioned earlier, closing an account, whether done by you or your credit card provider, could negatively impact your score. Unless you dramatically reduce your spending, closing a card (and saying goodbye to that credit limit) will probably increase your credit utilization rate. It could also lower your average age of accounts when the card falls off your credit report.
Instead: Exercise caution when considering closing any cards, as doing so could cause more harm than good. Spending just to earn rewards.
Spending just to earn rewards. (Getty Images) If you have a rewards card, it can be tempting to spend just to earn that 5 percent cash back or those airline miles. However, if you end up buying things you don’t need just for the perks, it could cause you to spend more than you can afford.
Instead: When shopping, question why you’re buying each item and whether you really need everything you’re purchasing. If you don’t have a good reason, consider delaying your purchase. This could help prevent both impulse buys and faulty justification for shopping. Ignoring your monthly statement.
Ignoring your monthly statement. (iStockPhoto) We’re inundated with information these days, but one thing you don’t want to ignore is your monthly statement. Looking over it regularly can help you learn about changes to your interest rates and fees, remind you of your payment due date, help you spot erroneous charges quickly and more.
Instead: Regularly check your accounts, and make sure you know the state of each card you own. It could save you a world of trouble in the future. Carrying a balance to improve your credit.The Capital One Spark Cash for Business card is a business rewards credit card that offers unlimited 2 percent cash back on every purchase. Cardholders can earn a $500 cash bonus when they spend $4,500 within the first three months of opening the account. The annual fee is $0 intro for first year; $95 after that. The APR is 18.49 percent (variable) on both purchases and balance transfers.
Rewards: The Capital One Spark Cash for Business earns an unlimited 2 percent cash back on every purchase. Users can redeem rewards at any time, and there are no minimum thresholds to meet for redemption.
Sign-up bonus: Earn a one-time $500 cash bonus once you spend $4,500 on purchases within the first three months of opening the account.
Annual fee: There is an annual fee of $0 intro for first year; $95 after that.
No zero percent introductory APR: The Capital One Spark Cash for Business card does not offer a zero percent introductory APR for purchases or balance transfers, though this is a feature offered by many other business credit cards. The APR for purchases is 18.49 percent (variable).
Credit score: To be approved for this card, you must have good to excellent credit.
Capital One® Spark® Cash for Business Features & Rewards Details Features Issuer Name Capital One
Annual Fee $0 intro for first year; $95 after that
Cash Advance Fee 3% of the amount of the cash advance, but not less than $10
Additional Benefits Earning unlimited 2% cash back could mean thousands of dollars each year going back into your business Plus, a one-time $500 cash bonus once you spend $4,500 on purchases within 3 months from account opening Use Spark Cash across all your business spend, with no categories to limit your purchasing $0 intro annual fee for the first year; $95 after that Rewards won't expire for the life of the account, and you can redeem your cash back for any amount Get employee cards at no additional cost, and earn rewards from their business spend
The Capital One Spark Cash for Business card offers the following benefits:
The Capital One Spark Cash for Business card earns 2 percent cash back on all purchases. Users can earn a $500 cash bonus by spending $4,500 within the first three months of opening an account.
Capital One Spark Cash for Business vs. Chase Ink Business Preferred Credit Card
Annual fee: The Capital One Spark Cash for Business card has an annual fee of $0 intro for first year; $95 after that. The Chase Ink Business Preferred Credit Card has an annual fee of $95.
Rewards: The Capital One Spark Cash for Business card offers 2 percent cash back on all purchases with no limit on the amount of cash back you can earn. With the Chase Ink Business Preferred Credit Card, users can earn three points per dollar on the first $150,000 spent on combined purchases in bonus categories. These include business travel expenses; internet, cable and phone services; shipping; and certain advertising costs. The Chase Ink Business Preferred Credit Card gives users unlimited earnings of one point per dollar spent on all other purchases. Points do not expire and are worth 25 percent more when redeemed for travel with Chase Ultimate Rewards.
Sign-up bonus: The Capital One Spark Cash for Business card offers a one-time $500 bonus when you spend at least $4,500 within the first three months of opening the account. The Chase Ink Business Preferred Credit Card gives users 80,000 bonus points after spending $5,000 on purchases during the first three months their account is open.
Benefits: Both cards offer zero fraud liability, an auto rental collision damage waiver, travel and emergency assistance, purchase security and extended warranty coverage. There are no foreign transaction fees on either card. The Chase Ink Business Preferred Credit Card offers one-to-one point transfers with 11 participating frequent travel programs. Trip cancellation and interruption insurance, along with cellphone protection, are also included.
Annual fee: The Capital One Spark Cash for Business card has an annual fee of $0 intro for first year; $95 after that. The Capital One Spark Cash Select for Business card has no annual fee.
Rewards: The Capital One Spark Cash for Business card offers 2 percent cash back on all purchases with no limit on the amount of rewards you can earn. With the Capital One Spark Cash Select for Business card, users earn unlimited 1.5 percent cash back.
Sign-up bonus: The Capital One Spark Cash for Business card offers a one-time $500 bonus when you spend at least $4,500 within the first three months of opening an account. The Capital One Spark Cash Select for Business card offers a $200 cash bonus when you spend $3,000 within the first three months the account is open.The Southwest Rapid Rewards Premier Credit Card from Chase is an airline rewards card. It allows you to earn points on all purchases in any spending category. You can earn 40,000 bonus points by making $1,000 in purchases within the first three months, and you are awarded 6,000 bonus points after your cardholder anniversary.
The card charges a $99 annual fee. Interest rates for the Southwest Rapid Rewards Premier Credit Card are a 17.24 to 24.24 percent variable.
Rewards: The Southwest Rapid Rewards Premier Credit Card gives account holders one point for every dollar you spend with the card with no limits on how much you can earn. You earn two points for every dollar spent with Southwest Airlines and Rapid Rewards hotel and car rental partners.
40,000-point sign-up bonus: Cardholders receive 40,000 bonus points after spending $1,000 in the first three months after opening an account.
Travel benefits: Travel benefits include no foreign transaction fees, free checked bags, an auto rental collision damage waiver, baggage and travel insurance and emergency assistance services.
No zero percent APR introductory period: There is no zero percent APR introductory period for purchases or balance transfers.
Southwest Rapid Rewards® Premier Credit Card Features & Rewards Details Apply Now Features Issuer Name Chase
Balance Transfer Fee Either $5 or 5% of the amount of each transfer, whichever is greater.
Cash Advance Fee Either $10 or 5% of the amount of each transaction, whichever is greater.
Additional Benefits Earn 40,000 points after you spend $1,000 on purchases in the first 3 months your account is open. 6,000 bonus points after your Cardmember anniversary 2 points per $1 spent on Southwest® purchases and Rapid Rewards® Hotel and Car Rental Partner purchases 1 point per $1 spent on all other purchases Earn unlimited points that don't expire as long as your card account is open No foreign transaction fees No blackout dates or seat restrictions, Bags fly free® and no change fees Redeem your points for flights, hotel stays, gift cards, access to events and more
With the Southwest Rapid Rewards Premier Credit Card, you receive consumer benefits including purchase protection and an extended warranty on products bought with the card, and travel benefits including no foreign transaction fees, baggage and travel insurance and travel and emergency assistance services. First and second checked bags fly free and no change fees apply.
Maximizing your rewards is straightforward with the Southwest Rapid Rewards Premier Credit Card. The more purchases you make using the card, the more points earn with no spending limits. You earn two points for every dollar spent with Southwest Airlines and Rapid Rewards hotel and car rental partners and one point for all other purchases.
If you spend at least $1,000 in the first three months after you open your account, you’ll earn 40,000 bonus points.
Southwest Rapid Rewards Premier Credit Card vs. Chase Southwest Rapid Rewards Plus Card
Annual fee: The Southwest Rapid Rewards Premier Credit Card charges a $99 annual fee. The Chase Southwest Rapid Rewards Plus Card charges a $69 annual fee.
Rewards: Both the Southwest Rapid Rewards Premier Credit Card and Chase Southwest Rapid Rewards Plus Card offer points as a reward for all purchases with no spending limits. You get double points on Southwest purchases and with Rapid Rewards hotel and car rental partners. With the Southwest Rapid Rewards Premier Credit Card, you earn 6,000 points on your cardholder anniversary. With the Chase Southwest Rapid Rewards Plus Card, you earn 3,000 points on your anniversary.
Sign-up bonus: You can earn 40,000 bonus points by spending at least $1,000 in the first three months with either card.
Benefits: Both the Southwest Rapid Rewards Premier Credit Card and Chase Southwest Rapid Rewards Plus Card offer valuable consumer and travel benefits including purchase protection and extended warranty coverage on products purchased with the card, and a range of useful travel benefits. The Chase Southwest Rapid Rewards Premier Credit Card has no foreign transaction fees, but the Chase Southwest Rapid Rewards Plus Card has a 3 percent foreign transaction fee.
Southwest Rapid Rewards Premier Credit Card vs. Chase Sapphire Preferred Credit Card
Annual fee: There is a $99 annual fee for the Southwest Rapid Rewards Premier Credit Card. The Chase Sapphire Preferred Credit Card does not charge an annual fee for the first year, but a $95 annual fee applies from the second year on.
Rewards: The Southwest Rapid Rewards Premier Credit Card offers points as a reward for all purchases with no spending limits. You get double points on Southwest purchases and with Rapid Rewards hotel and car rental partners. The Southwest Rapid Rewards Premier Credit Card offers 6,000 points on your cardholder anniversary. The Chase Sapphire Preferred Credit Card offers points on all purchases (no spending limits), with double points on travel and dining purchases. On redemption, you get an additional 25 percent in points value if you redeem your points on travel booked with Chase Ultimate Rewards.
Sign-up bonus: With the Southwest Rapid Rewards Premier Credit Card, you can receive 40,000 bonus points by making at least $1,000 in purchases in the first three months of opening the account. The Chase Sapphire Preferred Credit Card offers a 50,000-point sign-up bonus if you spend $4,000 within the first three months of opening the account.A man has told of how he "got his mum back" from the ravages of Alzheimer's disease, in part, by getting her to follow a diet high in berries and leafy green vegetables.
But how realistic is it that dementia can be tackled through diet?
Mark Hatzer's mum Sylvia was diagnosed with Alzheimer's in December 2016 and it progressed fast, so that at its worst she forgot who he was.
Mark has explained how a change in her diet led to her condition improving.
"I slowly got my mum back. Her memory is improving all the time. She is more alert and engaged. She is basically her old self again," he wrote in a blog.
Sylvia ate a diet rich in blueberries, blackberries and strawberries.
Berries are part of the flavonoid nutrient family which is known for its antioxidant and anti-inflammatory abilities.
Investigators have claimed that blueberries may activate part of the brain which controls learning and memory, but more studies are needed.
Sylvia's diet was also rich in leafy green vegetables, such as spinach and kale.
Like berries, green leaves and vegetables contain high levels of antioxidants.
The Alzheimer's Society says that high levels of antioxidants may help to protect against some of the damage to brain cells associated with the disease.
Inflammation - in the form of a chemical change in the brain - is associated with Alzheimer's disease and the charity says there are suggestions that a diet high in antioxidants reduces the signs of this inflammation.
Also on Sylvia's diet plan were sweet potatoes, carrots and swede.
These orange-coloured vegetables are rich in another antioxidant, called beta-carotene, which some scientists say may benefit the brain and memory.
Sylvia excluded refined sugar and sugary drinks, fried foods and fast food and pastries, cakes and sweets from her diet - foods that experts agree should be kept to a minimum for a healthy diet.
What Sylvia is following in her diet is very much like the Mediterranean diet, with few processed and fatty foods and lots of fresh fruit and veg.
Alzheimer's Research UK said the latest research presented at the Alzheimer's Association International Conference 2017 found four studies highlighting the potential benefits of certain diets, including the Mediterranean diet, and how they can support healthy brain ageing and help to reduce dementia risk.
Dr David Reynolds, chief scientific officer at Alzheimer's Research UK, said the studies built on "growing evidence" suggesting that following a Mediterranean style diet may hold valuable health benefits as we enter our later years.
"Observational studies like these can be useful for highlighting factors linked to healthy ageing, but this type of research can't definitively answer whether specific diets can prevent dementia," he said.
Dr Doug Brown, chief policy and research officer at the Alzheimer's Society, says they are still waiting for proof from big scientific trials to show whether changing your diet can reduce the risk of dementia, and by how much.
"But eating a healthy, balanced diet can reduce the risk of heart disease, cancer and stroke, so it's likely eating healthily is a good way to look after the health of your brain too."
The Alzheimer's Society points out that while there are multiple studies into diet and the disease that are very promising, there have also been large studies that have not shown similar trends.
There are scientific limits too as studies have not shown whether diet can help with anyone with a genetic predisposition to getting Alzheimer's.
Apart from food, an extra element in Sylvia's plan was regular walking, a good night's sleep, and an increase in socialising. She also did memory games and puzzles.
The Alzheimer's Society says research has found all of these things have been found to reduce your risk of dementia.
Dr Brown said that as dementia is set to be the 21st Century's biggest killer, with no way yet to cure the condition, "prevention is key".Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Knowing your weight and height is enough to calculate your body mass index
You've been using our fat calculator in your droves, working out your BMI (body mass index) and comparing the result with people in your age group and your part of the UK.
But a few people have been critical. They say using BMI to measure whether they are healthy, overweight or obese is misleading.
So what's the truth? Can we trust what it tells us?
Firstly, it is a quick and easy way of working out whether you are in the healthy category by using two simple measures - weight and height.
Most doctors say it is the best method they have, it's pretty accurate, can be measured simply in clinic and is acceptable to patients.
"It works in the vast majority of people, the vast majority of time," says Prof Naveed Sattar, from the University of Glasgow.
"If two people are the same height and one has a BMI of 25 and the other a BMI of 40, then excess body fat is the reason."
Measuring BMI is also much more accurate and potentially less embarrassing than measuring someone's waist circumference, which is also a good guide.
BMI is calculated by dividing an adult's weight by the square of their height.
And this provoked a few comments along these lines: "Why, in this day and age, are you using BMI to tell people they are overweight? It is an outdated method that does not take into consideration muscle and actual health! I am extremely fit and healthy with a low body fat percentage, yet your BMI tells me (and many more self-conscious girls) that I am overweight!"
There are some people who carry a lot of muscle and little fat, like bodybuilders, boxers and rugby players.
Muscle is much denser than fat so they may end up with a BMI that classes them as obese, despite the fact they may be fit and healthy.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Some professional rugby players will be classed as obese because of their high muscle mass - but this is rare
But this is thought to apply to fewer than 1% of the population. Most people aren't extreme athletes.
Tim Cole, professor of medical statistics, at University College London Great Ormond Street Institute of Child Health, said BMI was "still extremely relevant".
"You don't see many bodybuilders around but you do see lots of people with large waists. Many people get exercised about that wrongly."
As people age, they lose muscle and may be classed in the "healthy weight" range even though they may be carrying excess fat. This is particularly true of smokers.
BMI also doesn't apply to pregnant women, and some ethnic groups have a higher risk of health problems at lower BMI levels.
It can't measure how much excess fat we have in our bodies - as opposed to muscle and bone - because that would require some pretty complicated and expensive medical procedures, which just aren't practical to carry out on the whole population.
What is does do is give a healthy weight range for a particular height, taking into account variations in body shape - and it provides a good starting point for the majority of people.
It also doesn't measure how fat is distributed throughout the body (some fat is ok; too much in the wrong place is a risk).
Research shows that people who carry a lot of fat around their waists are at higher risk of health problems than those with more fat around their thighs and buttocks.
They are more likely to have fat stored in their abdomen around key organs, which could increase the risk of heart disease, stroke and type 2 diabetes.
So waist size may be a better way to monitor your health than BMI. That's why our calculator included an option for giving your waist size too.
"If people think they have lots of muscle mass, their waists should be lower for a given BMI - so they can easily check," says Prof Sattar.
find the bottom of your ribs and the top of your hips
wrap a tape measure around your waist midway between these points
Regardless of your height or BMI, you should try to lose weight if your waist is:
But doctors use BMI in conjunction with other measures - like blood pressure, cholesterol and family history - to work out an individual's risk of type 2 diabetes or heart disease, for example.
Body mass index is not specific to any particular health risk - and that's its strength, experts say.
However, a BMI above the healthy range or too much fat around the waist is known to increase the risk of serious health problems, including stroke and certain cancers.
One person said of the BBC calculator: "Your unscientific method of calculating 'fatness' is an unhelpful tool that dehumanises those who are obese or overweight, shaming them into losing weight and threatening their fragile relationship with their bodies."
There was no intention of shaming people - merely offering a way of finding out about your own weight because excess fat is the cause of an increased risk of a range of diseases.
If you think you would like to lose some weight, you should go and see your GP for advice first.
The best way to lose weight is to make small, realistic changes to your diet and physical activity.Drinking from plastic bottles and using microwave ovens are some of the fake causes of cancer people believe, research suggests.
In a survey of 1,330 people in England, published in the European Journal of Cancer, most people correctly said smoking was a cause.
Smoking, being overweight and overexposure to UV radiation are the biggest preventable causes of cancer.
Cancer Research UK said about four in 10 cases of cancer could be prevented through lifestyle changes and it was important to have the right information to "separate the wheat from the chaff".
Researchers at University College London and the University of Leeds carried out the survey and found that more than 40% wrongly thought that stress and food additives caused cancer.
One-third incorrectly believed that electromagnetic frequencies (35%) and eating genetically modified (GM) food (34%) were risk factors, while 19% thought microwave ovens and 15% said drinking from plastic bottles caused cancer, despite a lack of good scientific evidence.
Smoking was, correctly, selected by 88% of those surveyed, 80% picked passive smoking and 60% said sunburn were causes of cancer - all proven.
Believing in fake causes of cancer did not mean people were more likely to have risky lifestyle habits, but those who were better informed about the proven causes of cancer were more likely not to smoke, the study found.
They were also more likely to eat more fruit and vegetables.
Dr Samuel Smith, from the University of Leeds, said: "It's worrying to see so many people endorse risk factors for which there is no convincing evidence.
"Compared to past research, it appears the number of people believing in unproven causes of cancer has increased since the start of the century, which could be a result of changes to how we access news and information through the internet and social media."
He added: "It's vital to improve public education about the causes of cancer if we want to help people make informed decisions about their lives and ensure they aren't worrying unnecessarily."
Clare Hyde, from Cancer Research UK, said: "There is no guarantee against getting cancer - but by knowing the biggest risk factors we can stack the odds in our favour to help reduce our individual risk of the disease, rather than wasting time worrying about fake news."The claim: More money is spent on the health impact of obesity than on the police and fire services.
Reality Check verdict: This claim is based on double-counting the costs of obesity-related diabetes and includes the costs of types of diabetes that are not caused by obesity.
Coordinated by campaigning chef Jamie Oliver, the leaders of the Labour Party, Scottish National Party, Liberal Democrats and Green Party sent a letter to the prime minister on Wednesday calling for a comprehensive strategy to tackle childhood obesity.
It included the claim: "According to the head of NHS England, more money is being spent dealing with the health impact of obesity than is spent on the fire and police services combined."
This refers back to a claim made by NHS England chief executive Simon Stevens to the Commons Health Select Committee on 6 June 2016.
NHS England referred Reality Check to a 2014 report on the costs of obesity from the consultants McKinsey, which made a slightly different claim: "The cost of obesity and diabetes to the healthcare system is equivalent to the United Kingdom's combined 'protection' budget for the police and fire services, law courts, and prisons."
The usual figure given by Public Health England (PHE) for the cost of obesity in England is £6.1bn per year.
But to make this claim, McKinsey has combined the cost of obesity with the cost of diabetes. It breaks the figures down into £6bn in the UK on obesity and another £10bn on the cost of treating diabetes.
The £6bn figure is derived from a 2011 academic paper, which put the figure at £5.1bn for the UK, although that covered both obesity and being overweight (which aren't the same thing).
One of the authors of that paper, Peter Scarborough from Oxford University, told Reality Check that there would have been some double-counting in the combining of the £6bn and the £10bn because his report had also included the cost of treating obesity-related diabetes.
He also pointed out that not all of the £10bn would have been obesity-related: type 1 diabetes, for example, is not caused by obesity.
So the £16bn figure is considerably too high because it involves the double-counting of obesity-related diabetes costs and also includes costs of non-obesity related diabetes.
Now let's look at the figures it was being compared with.
Simon Stevens and the letter both compared obesity costs with the police and fire service. For England that comes to a figure of about £13bn. For the whole of the UK it's just over £15bn.
Turning to McKinsey's comparison with police, fire, law courts and prisons, for the UK that's about £24bn, so significantly more than the £16bn for obesity and diabetes. McKinsey told Reality Check they had only been talking about central government spending, which adds up to just over £15bn according to this website that they pointed us towards.
But these figures count the police block grant as part of local government spending, even though it's money provided by central government to local police forces.
The NHS needs £50bn more by 2030 in England, a former health minister and leading surgeon says.
The prediction, by Labour's Lord Darzi, comes after Prime Minister Theresa May said the government planned to devise a long-term funding plan for the health service.
There is speculation this will be unveiled during the 70th anniversary of the creation of the NHS in July.
Lord Darzi's report has been supported by both Tory and Lib Dem politicians.
It said the extra funding was in line with what the NHS had traditionally received - just under 4% extra a year.
The analysis said this was needed to help cope with the ageing population, advances in technology and inflation.
